All right guys now I'm going to show you how to take a grid item and span it across multiple rows and
columns.
So we're gonna create a new file here called 0 3 underscore grid underscore span dot HD CML.
And let's go ahead and generate our each team I'll head body tags we'll say grid span style
and as far as the markup let's just do our parent call it grid and then let's do class item just say
item money Sign and let's do a bunch of them so we'll do times 15.
So have 15 grid items here so let's say grid display grid and then I'm going to add grid template columns
and I'm going to just do a repeat of 4 1 f fa items.
OK so we'll save that.
Let's open it up.
All right it's gonna look like that.
I'm just gonna grab the styling of the item from one of the other files just so we can clearly see see
them as boxes.
Why is this not copying
all right.
So save that.
Good.
Now what I want to do is take one of these items we'll take the first one and I want to show you how
we can span it across okay across the columns and also down through the rows.
So I want to take this item one and I want to have it go like this.
Fill up this whole area and basically push the rest over so we can do that using.
I want to show you kind of a long way first and then I'll show you a short away.
So let's first target this first item.
We could give it a special class but well let's just use our pseudo selectors.
We'll use first child.
So I'll say.
Class of item.
We want the first child and we have a property called GRID column start.
OK so we can specify where we want it to start.
In terms of the columns.
So it starts at 1 right now.
Let's say let's just put it to two and save.
And you can see that it gets pushed over.
OK.
So we can start at wherever we want but I'm going to started at 1 and then I'm going to use another
property called GRID column end.
And we can basically tell it where we want it to end and I'm going to put in here for.
And you can see what happens is it spanned across what looks like three.
But what you're going to do is you're going to look at the lines Casey of one two three four.
OK.
So if you use this grid column and start now and that's what you're going to look at is you're going
to count these lines.
Now we can also go down and that's that's the big difference between the grid and flex box or one of
them is that you can't do that with Flex blocks you have your rows and that's it with with the grid
we can we can be multi-dimensional and we can span this down into the next one.
So let's add grid dash row dash start and we'll start at 1 which is where we currently are.
And then let's say grid dash row dash and and let's say we want to end at three and I'm going to save
that.
And now you can see that this is now spanning basically Well look what looks like two rows.
But again if you look at the lines it's going from one to three.
Now this is kind of a long way to do this.
There's a shorter way much like with many things and CSX.
So I'm going to comment this out and I'm going to show you how to do the same thing by using the grid
column in the grid row property rather than starting.
And so let's say grid dash column.
So it's basically just a shortcut and we're gonna say start at 1 and then we want to do a slash and
we want to span three.
So I save that you can see it's doing the same thing that these two lines are doing.
And even though I put four here when I put three it does the same thing because here we're saying we
want to take we want an item to start at 1 and go to 4 when here we're saying we're taking item 1 and
spanning it 3.
OK.
And item one is here.
So we're spanning three.
Now if we want to go down like we did before.
Down down a row we can do grid row and let's start at one.
And we want to span two and we'll save.
And we get the same result.
OK.
So this is just a shorter way of doing this.
Let's grab another one.
So let's let's get a random one we'll just take nine.
So we'll use and the child so we'll say item and let's say andthe child and we'll do nine
and I want to keep it in its place but span it across all the way to the end here.
So in terms of columns it's in the second column.
Right.
So we want to do grid dash column and we want to set to.
We want to start at 2 and then we want to span 2.
OK.
We'll go ahead and save that actually wanted to go all the way over so we want to spend three.
All right.
And then if we want to span it down we could do grid row
and let's start it.
So we're at 1 2 3 4.
So let's say start at 4 and let's span 2 and save.
And now it gets pushed down.
OK.
So I mean you can start it wherever you want like we could do grid row 2 and span 2 and it's going to
get it's going to get pushed up here.
All right.
And notice that it's completely out of order but you may want that you may you may want your markup
to be a certain way but you want to move the the element visually without changing your markup.
So the grid is good for that as well.
All right.
So in the next video we're going to take a look at auto fitting and min max.